if there is a dispute between men and
they come to court that the judges may
judge them and they justify the
righteous and condemned the wicked then
it shall be if the wicked man deserves
to be beaten that the judge will cause
him to lie down and be beaten in his
presence according to his guilt with a
certain number of blows forty blows he
may give him and no more lest he should
exceed this and beat him with many blows
above these and your brother be
humiliated in your sight you shall not
muzzle an ox while it treads out the
grain if brothers dwell together and one
of them dies and has no son the widow of
the dead man shall not be married to a
stranger outside the family her
husband's brother shall go into her take
her as his wife and perform the duty of
a husband's brother to her
and it shall be that the firstborn son
which she bears will succeed to the name
of his dead brother that his name may
not be blotted out of Israel but if the
man does not want to take his brother's
wife then let his brother's wife go up
to the gate to the elders and say my
husband's brother refuses to raise up a
name to his brother in Israel he will
not perform the duty of my husband's
brother then the elders of his City
shall call him and speak to him but if
he stands firm and says I do not want to
take her then his brother's wife shall
come to him in the presence of the
elders remove his sandal from his foot
spit in his face and answer and say so
shall it be done to the man who will not
build up his brother's house and his
name shall be called in Israel the house
of him who had his sandal roof
if two men fight together and the wife
of one draws near to rescue her husband
from the hand of the one attacking him
and puts out her hand and seizes him by
the genitals
then you shall cut off her hand your I
shall not pity her you shall not have in
your bag differing weights the heavy in
the light you shall not have in your
house differing measures a large and a
small
you shall have a perfect and just weight
a perfect and just measure that your
days may be lengthened in the land which
the Lord your God is eating you
for all who do such things all who
behaves unrighteous ly are an
abomination to the Lord your God
remember what am elected to you on the
way as you were coming out of Egypt how
he met you on the way and attacked your
rear ranks all the stragglers at your
rear when you were tired and weary and
he did not fear God therefore it shall
be when the Lord your God has given you
rests from your enemies all around in
the land which the Lord your God is
giving you to possess as an inheritance
that you will blot out the remembrance
of Amalek from under heaven you shall
not forget